
#### [[Basic Info Relational Database]]

#### [[Basic Info Non Relational Database]]

#### [[DP 900 Syllabus]]


#### [[DP 900 Ad-Hoc Points]]













1. Basic SQL
2. Types of Data offering in Azure
	1. Azure SQL Database
	2. Azure SQL Managed Instance
	3. SQL Server on Virtual Machines
	4. Azure Database for PostgreSQL
	5. Azure Data for MySQL
	6. Azure Database for MariaDB
3. Describe the characteristics of relational data
	1. Tables
		1. Rows
		2. Columns
	2. Column Data types
	3. Keys
		1. Primary Keys
		2. Foreign Keys
	4. Clustered Index - A clustered index determines the **physical order of the data in a table**. The data rows themselves are stored and sorted on the disk based on the clustered index key.
	5. Non-clustered Index - A non-clustered index is a **separate structure** from the data rows. It has a sorted list of the indexed keys, and each key has a **pointer** to the physical data row.
	6. views - A View is essentially a **virtual table**. It doesn't store any data itself. Instead, it's a stored SELECT query that the database presents to you as if it were a table.
	7. Constraints - Constraints are **rules** that are enforced on the data in a table to ensure its accuracy and integrity. They prevent invalid data from being entered into your database.
	8. Functions - A Function is a reusable block of code that performs a specific calculation or manipulation and **must return a single value**. You use them within your queries to simplify complex logic.
	9. Stored Procedures - A Stored Procedure is a set of one or more SQL statements, saved as a single, executable unit. Unlike a function, it **does not have to return a value** and can perform complex operations, including modifying data (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE).
4. Normalization
	1. 1st Normal Form
	2. 2nd Normal Form
	3. 3rd Normal Form
5. Roles and responsibilities for data workloads
	1. DBA
	2. Data Engineers
	3. Data Analysts
6. Describe the characteristics of non-relational data
	1. Semi-structured Data
		1. JSON format (JavaScript Object Notation)
		2. Key-value stores
		3. Graph databases
		4. Avro
		5. ORC (Optimized Row Columnar format)
		6. Parquet
	2. Non-structured Data
7. Determine when to use non-relational data
8. Describe Azure Cosmos DB APIs
	1. Core (SQL) API
	2. MongoDB API
	3. Table AP
	4. Cassandra API
	5. Gremlin API
9. Azure storage
	1. Azure Table storage
	2. Azure Blob storage
	3. Azure File storage
10. Describe an analytics workload on Azure
	1. Transactional systems vs Analytics systems
	2. Transactional workloads
		1. Transactions
		2. ACID
		3. Locks
		4. Distributed Databases
	3. Batch data
	4. Streaming data
	5. Data processing
	6. Azure Data Factory
	7. PolyBase
	8. SQL Server Integration Services
	9. Azure Data Lake
	10. Azure Databricks
	11. Azure Synapse Data Explorer
	12. Azure Synapse Analytics
	13. Spark structured streaming
	14. Azure Analysis Services
	15. Azure HDInsight - **Apache Hive** provides interactive SQL-like facilities for querying, aggregating, and summarizing data. The data can come from many different sources. Queries are converted into tasks, and parallelized. Each task can run on a separate node in the HDInsight cluster, and the results are combined before being returned to the user.
	16. Microsoft Fabric
11. Data visualization in Microsoft Power BI
	1. Describe data visualization
	2. Paginated reporting
	3. interactive reports
	4. dashboards
12. Ad-Hoc Points
	1. hybrid deployment
	2. On-demand pools - On-demand pools only allow you to query data held in external files. If you want to ingest and load the data into Synapse Analytics, you must create your own SQL pool.
	3. Parquet
	4. Avro
	5. ORC
	6. XML
	7. JSON
	8. Azure Data Explorer
	9. Azure Stream Analytics
	10. Spark Structured Streaming